.TH "G15Composer" "1" "3.0.1" "G15Tools - G15Composer" "G15Tools User Manual"
.SH "NAME"
g15composer \- Scriptable command interface to
.BR libg15render (3)
drawing functions
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
G15composer is a scriptable command interface to the libg15render drawing functions that outputs to a g15daemon screen. G15composer exposes all graphics primitives and text rendering functions of libg15render so that they may be used in a variety of situations, including from the command line or in virtually any scripting language.
.SH "OPTIONS"
G15composer understands the following options:
.br
.P
.HP
\-h	Show usage information.
.P
.HP
\-b	Start without a display to listen for new screen commands.
.SH "BASIC USAGE"
nohup ./g15composer /path/to/pipe &

1) echo 'TL "Hello" "World"' > /path/to/pipe

2) cat instructions > /path/to/pipe

3) ./some_script > /path/to/pipe
   where some_script is a bash, Perl, etc. script or application which outputs
   one or more of the commands listed below.
.SH "COMMANDS"
*** Text Commands:

Ts "line 1" "line 2" ...
   where s is the size of the font (S, M and L are supported).
   To insert a double-quote, prefix it with a backslash

TO X Y S F "line 1" "line 2" ...
   Overlays text of the given size at (X,Y)
   Text will be centered if F=1 and right justified if F=2

*** Font Command: (NB., g15composer must be configured with --enable-ttf to use font commands)

FL F S "/path/to/font"
   Loads a font into Face Slot F with size S.

FP F S X Y Co Ce "line 1" "line 2" ...
   Prints text using the font is Slot F with size S at position (X,Y).
   Text will be printed in color Co and will be centered if Ce=1.

*** Pixel Commands:

PO X Y W H "100101101..."
   Overlays a pixel image of the given Width and Height at (X,Y)
   The last argument must now be passed as a quoted string.  This is a change from previous behavior.

PS X Y C
   Sets the pixel at (X,Y) to color C (0 or 1)

PC 0|1
   Clears the screen and fills it with 0|1

PF X1 Y1 X2 Y2 C
   Fills the area from (X1,Y1) to (X2,Y2) with color C

PR X1 Y1 X2 Y2
   Reverses the pixels from (X1,Y1) to (X2,Y2)

PB X1 Y1 X2 Y2 C T F
   Draws a box from (X1,Y1) to (X2,Y2) using color C and thickness T, filling if F=1
   T, and F are optional, but if specified must be specified in order, i.e., you must set T to set F
   Defaults are T=1, and F=0

*** Drawing Commands:

DL X1 Y1 X2 Y2 C
   Draws a line from (X1,Y1) to (X2,Y2) using color C

DC X Y R C F
   Draws a circle centered at (X,Y) with radius R using color C, filling if F=1
   F is optional and defaults to F=0
   Note that the syntax has changed, the position of C and F has been swapped

DR X1 Y1 X2 Y2 C F
   Draws a rounded box from (X1,Y1) to (X2,Y2) using color C, filling if F=1
   F is optional and defaults to F=0
   Note that the syntax has changed, the position of C and F has been swapped

DB X1 Y1 X2 Y2 C N M T
   Draws a percentage or progress bar from (X1,Y1) to (X2,Y2) using color C
   The bar will be filled with N units out of M
   T sets the type of the bar, valid values are 1, 2, or 3
   T is optional and defaults to T=1

*** Mode Commands:

MC 0|1
   Turns caching off or on, i.e. the changes are not immediately sent to the
   LCD if caching is on (MC 1). Changes will be sent on the next MC 0.

MX 0|1
   Sets succeeding pixel colors to normal, or XORed with existing pixels.
   Good for drawing sprites with MC:
      MC 1, draw, MC 0
      MC 1, redraw in original position and draw elsewhere, MC 0

   Old   New   Current   Redraw
    0     0     0^0 = 0   0^0 = 0
    0     1     0^1 = 1   1^1 = 0
    1     0     1^0 = 1   1^0 = 1
    1     1     1^1 = 0   0^1 = 1

MR 0|1
   Set succeeding pixel colors to normal, or reversed

MP 0|1|2
   Set screen to foreground if 0 and background if 1
   If 2, set screen to background if and only if user hasn't set it to foreground

*** Screen Commands:

SN "/path/to/pipe"
   Create a new G15Comopser instance reading from /path/to/pipe

SC
   Close the current screen.  Closing the initial screen will close all other screens

----------------------

The following commands are relayed to g15daemon:

*** LCD Commands:

LB 0|1|2
   Sets the LCD brightness level

LC 0|1|2
   Sets the LCD contrast level


*** Keyboard/LED Commands:

KL 0|1|2
   Sets LED mode: 0=app-controlled 1=normal 2=sticky.
   Not currently implemented.

KM x 0|1
   Sets the Mx-light off or on. x=0,1,2,3 where 0 is all M-lights (minus MR).
   Only has an effect if KL is set to 0.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Anthony J. Mirabella <mirabeaj@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR g15daemon (1),
.BR libg15 (3),
.BR libg15render (3)
